One of the most useful parts of Claude
Code is the claw.md file.
>> [music]
>> It gives Claude Code persistent memory
about your project.
>> [music]
>> When you open up Claude Code without a
claw.md file, it's like it has to start
fresh every single time. It has to
re-explore your code base, understand
what dependencies are needed, and the
features that are already implemented.
Sometimes it has to make assumptions,
which makes it harder for us to steer
Claude in the right direction. But,
that's where claw.md comes in.
It's a markdown file that you add to the
root of your project, and Claude Code
reads it automatically every time you
start a session. It's like an onboarding
script for your code base.
Simply put, the contents of claw.md file
are appended to your own prompt. You can
run the  init command, which will
make Claude generate one based off of
your code base.
So, let's have a look at one.
This is a Next.js 15 app using the app
router, Tailwind, and Drizzle ORM.
Command: dev server, run tests, lint,
code style, use two-space indentation,
prefer named exports, all API routes go
in app/api,
use server actions instead of API routes
where possible.
And it's pretty straightforward. Now, if
I ask Claude Code to create a React
component, it knows how to style it with
Tailwind or any other CSS framework that
I'm using. We can see that Claude does a
better job at doing his job right off
the bat versus having to understand
where everything is at first.
And before you ask, the answer is yes.
You share this in your version control
for your team to use, but there's
actually a hierarchy of memory files
depending on who it's for. So, first you
have your project-level claw.md that
lives in the root directory of your
project. You have a user-level claw.md
that lives in your configuration folder.
This one is just for you and goes across
all your projects. So, put your personal
preferences here, like how you write
code comments.
First, if you have to correct Claude to
do something like always use server
actions instead of API routes,
then explicitly ask Claude to save this
to memory, so that when you come back to
this project, it will know every single
time.
Second, if you have docs in your project
that you want Claude to reference, just
use the @ symbol with the file path.
And third is we recommend you start off
a project without a Claude.md file, can
see where you have to constantly course
correct the model. This keeps your
Claude.md file compact and contain only
the necessary information that Claude
can work with.
The difference between a frustrating
Claude code session and a productive one
comes down to the context and the
Claude.md file is how you provide that
context.
Start with your stack, your preferences,
and then commands, and
>> [music]
>> just build from there as you go.